docs: 🏗️ add design of extract metadata CLI (#1763)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/design/interface/python.qmd

---
title: "Python interface"
---

This document describes the design of the Python functions forming the CLI and
the library layer, as well as tracking implementation status.

{{< include /docs/includes/_design-status.qmd >}}

## CLI functions

### {{< var planned >}} `extract_metadata()`

`extract_metadata()` has two arguments: `parquet_file` and `output_file`. The
`parquet_file` argument is the path to a Parquet file in, e.g. the `staging/`

> directory, and the `output_file` argument is the path to the Python script that

Reviewer: Absolute or relative paths?

Author: Shouldn't matter

will have the `ResourceProperties()` dataclass filled in with the extracted
metadata.

```{mermaid}
%%| label: fig-flow-extract-resource-metadata
%%| fig-cap: >-
%%|   Diagram showing the flow of objects and functions to extract a resource's
%%|   metadata from data.

> %%| fig-alt: "A flow diagram showing the steps to extract resource metadata from data."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
%%| fig-alt: "A flow diagram showing the steps to extract resource metadata from a Parquet file."
```

flowchart
    parquet[/"Parquet data<br>[PARQUET-FILE]"/]
    read_parquet["read_parquet()"]
    output_opt["Output file<br>[--output]"]
    output[/"Python script<br>[File]"/]
    data[("DataFrame<br>(Tidy)")]
    extract_resource_metadata("extract_resource_metadata()")

>     metadata[("FieldProperties<br>(extracted)")]

Reviewer 2: Do we want to / can we fill in any other attributes in the `ResourceProperties`? Maybe the resource name?

Author: Hmm, not really. Currently the create script function makes an empty ResourceProperties.
